hey guys Brian here vana how to videos
comm we're back in the shop today with
Willie B's 93 Honda Civic today we're
going to be doing is replacing some
inner and outer tire rods we're going to
show you guys how to do that will once
just a little about what we're going to
be doing today and how to do ok today
we're going to replace like you said
Internet or tire on it was it looked
like this we're going to do it on a rack
and pinion type setup which is the
majority of your vehicles on the road
today we're going to show you all the
tools that required to do it and show
you how easy it is and you can do this
in your driveway no problem alright well
let's get started go just a good example
if you got any side-to-side play like
like this usually indicates a tie rot
outer tie rod or an inner tie rod loose
in this case the the inner tie rod is
our main problem so first thing you need
to do is you're going to find an
adjustment nut this is your your toe
adjustment it's going to jam down on it
which is this go ahead and back this off
and then then you're going to want to
take your castle nut off the tip of your
tie rod right here and then separate it
go ahead and thread your outer tie rod
off of your inner tie rod and sometimes
you might have to put a wrench on here
to keep the whole thing from spinning
okay next step is this this Jam that you
previously broke loose you want to go
ahead and thread it the RET all the way
off so you can get your bellows boot out
of here and it's going to leave a good
little spot on the old tie rod right
about where this Jam nut was sitting and
it's going to leave a clean spot so what
you're going to want to do when you put
your other one back on is trying to just
eyeball where this nut was and put it
back there that way to be real close for
when you go to get an alignment step is
you want to move your remove your
bellows boot usually got a small clamp
on this outside it's usually got a
larger band style clamp on the inside
it's similar to a CV joint boot they're
not reusable so just go ahead and take a
screwdriver sup and break it off and you
should be able to pull this off and some
of these will have a little nipple for
an air hose and have an air hose hooked
to it and that's just to vent any air
pressures as you're steering so you
don't have a suction and now you're
going to expose your inner tie rod and
you go to remove your inner tie rod it's
going to be a special tool you're going
to want to pick up some cars you can't
even do the job without this tool this
is a inner tie rod socket we'll remover
whatever you want to call it and they do
have different size inserts that fit the
hex on the inside of your tie rod right
here
here's just a better view of it to fit
on it just like that then you'll run
your socket over here and lock it in
half inch drive square on the end of it
and that's for a reason because they are
usually really tight go ahead and bust
that loose just want them too bad and
you can see it just screws in to the end
of your rack gear this is actually a
gear and every one of these are
different but they have some sort of
locking mechanism on them so when you
screw the new one on you're going to get
a new locking mechanism it's going to
fit right here in those grooves after
you get it tight you're going to smash
this down in these grooves some of them
have are like this some of them have
like a little rivet and some of them you
just look use blue loctite on and today
I'm going to probably use blue loctite
on this one along with this clip okay I
went ahead and put a little blue loctite
put it on threads right here go ahead
and start it rent it into the end your
rack
sometimes they can be tricky because it
Tyrod then make sure you line your lock
up with your grooves
all right
get a finger tap go ahead and finish it
off now next we'll reinstall your
bellows boot the clip think it took off
obviously you can't reuse and they're a
pain in the neck to find and replace
them so best alternatives wire ties they
work great it won't come off so go ahead
not sometimes a lumber cake this this
here some slides over your rack good and
put that bad boy on alright next step
you're going to want to reinstall your
jamb nut back on your new tie rod and
remember try and put it back close to
the same spot or where it was on your ol
balloon it'll make it drive a little bit
better when you get it done so you can
get it to the alignment shop throw in
your new tie rod arm
go ahead and stall your castle nut your
cotter pin that's going to wrap up this
job
okay this wraps up our inner and outer
tie rod repair and I'm just going to
remind you any time you do have the
front end apart you need to go ahead and
have it aligned and that really
concludes this video for today guys be
sure to check out our website OTO how-to
videos com if you haven't already go
ahead and subscribe to our YouTube
channel and thanks for watching we'll
see you next time